Add Logs to doc website repo. (#1944)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _data-prepper/logs.md

---
layout: default
title: Log4j configuration
nav_order: 12
---

#Log4j configuration

The following describes how Data Prepper performs logging.

# Logging 
Data Prepper uses [SLF4J](http://www.slf4j.org/) with a [Log4j 2 binding](http://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/log4j-slf4j-impl/). 

> For Data Prepper 2.0 or above, Log4j 2 configuration file can be found and edited in `config/log4j2.properties` in the application's home directory. Default properties for Log4j 2 can be found in `log4j2-rolling.properties` in the *shared-config* directory.

Reviewer: "For Data Prepper versions 2.0 and higher ..." (See "above" in TERMS.md)
"... the Log4j 2 configuration file can be ..."

> For Data Prepper before version 2.0, Log4j 2 configuration can be overridden by setting "log4j.configurationFile" system property when running Data Prepper. Default properties for Log4j 2 can be found in `log4j2.properties` in the *shared-config* directory. 

Reviewer: "... by setting the "log4j.configurationFile" system property ..." 
I believe a system property is set in a configuration file and we would express this as code. If that's right, then it should be set as code: `log4j.configurationFile`.
Also, if this is a property, is it Boolean? In other words, would it be accurate to say:
"... by setting the `log4j.configurationFile` system property to `true`."?

Author: @oeyh Can you confirm that saying "... by setting the `log4j.configurationFile` system property to `true`" is accurate here?

Reviewer 2: It's not like that. Please refer to the example command following the above text:

```
java "-Dlog4j.configurationFile=config/custom-log4j2.properties" -jar data-prepper-core-$VERSION.jar pipelines.yaml data-prepper-config.yaml
```

This is how `log4j.configurationFile` property is set when running data prepper, with `-D{property_name}={property_value}`. The value here is a path to the log4j2 config file.

Author: @oeyh Would this work? "The following command is how the `log4j.configurationFile` property is set when running Data Prepper.  This property uses `-D{property_name}={property_value}` as the value, which is a path to the Log4j2 configuration file."

Author: @chenqi0805 Would this work? "The following command is how the log4j.configurationFile property is set when running Data Prepper. This property uses -D{property_name}={property_value} as the value, which is a path to the Log4j2 configuration file."

Reviewer 3: How about making it more concise by 
```
...can be overridden by setting system property "-Dlog4j.configurationFile={property_value}" when running Data Prepper, where {property_value} is a path to the Log4j2 configuration file.
```

---
layout: default
title: Log4j configuration
nav_order: 12
---

# Log4j configuration

> This section provides the details for configuring Log4j. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This section provides information about configuring Log4j. 
```

## Logging 

The following describes how Data Prepper performs logging. Data Prepper uses [SLF4J](http://www.slf4j.org/) with a [Log4j 2 binding](http://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/log4j-slf4j-impl/). 

> <!--- Editorial: Is it safe to remove this first introductory sentence? I'm not sure if it's necessary or helpful to users.--->

Reviewer 4: This seems like something we should ask a SME. Is it necessary to understanding what follows? If yes, then we should include it. If no, you can make a decision regarding whether or not to include it based on its potential helpfulness to the reader as complementary information.

Author: @natebower Oh, I was specifically referring only to the sentence: "The following describes how Data Prepper performs logging." The subsequent text seems to explain it. Maybe we can change it to something like "Data Prepper performs logging by using [SLF4J](http://www.slf4j.org/) with a [Log4j 2 binding](http://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/log4j-slf4j-impl/)." ?

> For Data Prepper version 2.0 and later, the Log4j 2 configuration file can be found and edited in `config/log4j2.properties` in the application's home directory. The default properties for Log4j 2 can be found in `log4j2-rolling.properties` in the *shared-config* directory.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For Data Prepper versions 2.0 and later, the Log4j 2 configuration file can be found and edited in `config/log4j2.properties` in the application's home directory. The default properties for Log4j 2 can be found in `log4j2-rolling.properties` in the *shared-config* directory.
```

> For Data Prepper versions before 2.0, Log4j 2 configuration can be overridden by setting "log4j.configurationFile" system property when running Data Prepper. Default properties for Log4j 2 can be found in `log4j2.properties` in the *shared-config* directory. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For Data Prepper versions before 2.0, the Log4j 2 configuration can be overridden by setting the "log4j.configurationFile" system property when running Data Prepper. Default properties for Log4j 2 can be found in `log4j2.properties` in the *shared-config* directory. 
```

Reviewer 4: Delete the second sentence, as it appears in the preceding paragraph. However, note that the text in code format is different in each case.

### Example

> When running Data Prepper, the following command can be overridden by setting system property `-Dlog4j.configurationFile={property_value}`, where `{property_value}` is a path to the Log4j2 configuration file.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When running Data Prepper, the following command can be overridden by setting the system property `-Dlog4j.configurationFile={property_value}`, where `{property_value}` is a path to the Log4j2 configuration file:
```

Reviewer 4: Preceding this, there is a space between "Log4j" and "2".

> <!--- Editorial: Do we need a colon at the end?--->

Reviewer 4: Yes, added to suggestion.

```
java "-Dlog4j.configurationFile=config/custom-log4j2.properties" -jar data-prepper-core-$VERSION.jar pipelines.yaml data-prepper-config.yaml
```

> See the [Log4j 2 configuration docs](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/manual/configuration.html) for more information on Log4j 2 configurations.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
See the [Log4j 2 configuration documentation](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/manual/configuration.html) for more information about Log4j 2 configuration.
```
